add suggested CLI-only paths (#1348)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/getting-started/cli-oss.md

---
slug: cli

> title: CLI-only workflow (OSS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Local CLI scans
```

import Install from "/src/components/procedure/_install-cli.mdx";
import Login from "/src/components/procedure/_login-activate.mdx";

# CLI-only workflow with Semgrep's OSS Engine

Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your first project for security issues, and view your findings in the CLI.

## Prerequisites

See [Prerequisites](/prerequisites/) to ensure that your machine meets Semgrep's requirements.

## Set up Semgrep

<Install />

## Scan your project

# Semgrep OSS

Navigate to the root of your codebase, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

To view the results in the CLI:

```console
semgrep scan
```

To export the results to a plain text file:

```console
semgrep ci --text --output=semgrep.txt
```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep scan --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep scan --json --output=semgrep.json
```

### Scan your project with a specific ruleset

You can scan your project using `--config auto` to run Semgrep with rules that apply to your codebase:

```console
semgrep scan --config auto
```

:::info

> Semgrep collects pseudonymous metrics when you use rules from the Registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Semgrep collects pseudonymous metrics when you use rules from the Registry. You can turn this off with `--metrics=off`.
```

:::

To scan your project with a specific ruleset, either one that you write or one that you obtain from the [Semgrep Registry](https://semgrep.dev/explore), you can do so using the `--config` flag:

```console
# Scan with the rules defined in rules.yaml
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml
```

You can include as many configuration flags as necessary.

```console
# Scan with rules defined in two separate config files
semgrep scan --config rules.yaml --config more_rules.yaml
```

#### Test custom rules

Semgrep includes functionality to [test the custom rules that you write](/writing-rules/testing-rules/):

```console
semgrep scan --test
```

## Improve performance for large codebases

You can set the number of subprocesses Semgrep uses to run checks in parallel:

```console
semgrep scan -j NUMBER_OF_SUBPROCESSES
```

> By default, Semgrep defaults to the number of cores detected on the system on which Semgrep is running. For additional information, see [Parallelization](/kb/semgrep-code/scan-engine-kill)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Semgrep uses a number of jobs equivalent to the number of cores detected on the system. For additional information, see [Parallelization](/kb/semgrep-code/scan-engine-kill)
```
Most of the engine kill stuff in the link is honestly mainly aimed at Pro users, so not sure how useful it is to link to from here.

---
slug: cli
title: CLI-only workflow (OSS)
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your first project for security issues, and view your findings in the CLI.
tags:
  - quickstart
  - cli
---

import MoreHelp from "/src/components/MoreHelp";
import Install from "/src/components/procedure/_install-cli.mdx";
import Login from "/src/components/procedure/_login-activate.mdx";

# CLI-only workflow with Semgrep's OSS Engine

Learn how to set up Semgrep, scan your first project for security issues, and view your findings in the CLI.

## Prerequisites

See [Prerequisites](/prerequisites/) to ensure that your machine meets Semgrep's requirements.

## Set up Semgrep

<Install />

## Scan your project

# Semgrep OSS

> Navigate to the root of your repository, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the root of your codebase, and run your first scan. The specific command you use depends on how you want to view the results.
```
(See comment further down on codebase vs repo vs project)

To view the results in the CLI:

```console

> semgrep scan

Reviewer: If you don't specify a config I'm pretty sure this does nothing?

Author: It does (IDK if this is unintended behavior?)

<img width="627" alt="image" src="https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-docs/assets/16521651/14a52ee3-c2fa-4d17-9104-213a64eb2b2d">

Reviewer: This is new!! (Previously it would tell you to specify a config, and recommend config auto). Does the scan output say with what config it's scanning with?

Author: It does not, but the results are identical to `semgrep scan --config auto`

Reviewer: :| ...we used to tell the user what rulesets are running regardless of log level. i'll make a ticket for the UX. thanks for looking into this.

```

To export the results to a SARIF file:

```console
semgrep scan --sarif --output=semgrep.sarif
```

To export the results to a JSON file:

```console
semgrep scan --json --output=semgrep.json
```

### Scan your project with a specific ruleset

> You can scan your project using `--config auto` to automatically obtain rules tailored to your project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can scan your project using `--config auto` to run Semgrep with rules that apply to your to your codebase:
```
Let's stick to the ff definitions:

codebase - more general term ("broader term"); anything scanned by semgrep; does not need to be a git repo 
repository - same definition as ... repository (git is implied)
project - any repos onboarded to Semgrep Cloud Platform, as that is the term used in the UI.

```console
semgrep scan --config auto .
```

:::info

> When using `--config auto`, Semgrep uses your project URL to log into the Semgrep registry.

Reviewer: In old versions of Semgrep, we would output text written like this (sounds weird to me) when starting a scan, so that users are aware their scan has some kind of identifier sent to the registry, even if it's pseudonymous to us (the Semgrep team).

**I suggest rewording this to say that Semgrep collects pseudonymous metrics when you use the Registry, because there's an implication here on a "Project URL" that may not exist on non-git codebases.**
